README.md, before:

[![Project Status: Active – The project has reached a stable, usable state and is being actively developed.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#active)
[![Build documentation](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/rse-course/actions/workflows/build_docs.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/rse-course/actions/workflows/build_docs.yaml)
[![Code style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![Licence: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python 3.8 | 3.9 | 3.10](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8%20%7C%203.9%20%7C%203.10-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

# Research Software Engineering Course

Course materials for Turing's Research Software Engineering course.

## Documentation

Documentation for the course is hosted at [`https://alan-turing-institute.github.io/rse-course`](https://alan-turing-institute.github.io/rse-course).
You can build the documentation from source by running:

```bash
pip install -U jupyter-book
./build_docs.sh
```

## Contributing

Contributions are always welcome! Please do the following:

- add an issue to the [course repo](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/rse-course), explaining the problem and, potentially, its solution.
- if you know how to fix it, please also open a pull request that contains the fix. By doing this, you will improve the instructions for future users. 🎉

The full list of contributors can be [seen here](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/rse-course/graphs/contributors).

## Acknowledgements

This course began as a fork of the [UCL RSD course](https://github.com/UCL/rsd-engineeringcourse).

Commit message:

:wrench: Add automatic dependency updater

README.md, after:

[![Project Status: Active – The project has reached a stable, usable state and is being actively developed.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#active)
[![Build documentation](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/rse-course/actions/workflows/build_docs.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/rse-course/actions/workflows/build_docs.yaml)
[![Code style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![Licence: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python 3.8 | 3.9 | 3.10](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8%20%7C%203.9%20%7C%203.10-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

# Research Software Engineering Course

Course materials for Turing's Research Software Engineering course.

## Documentation

Documentation for the course is hosted at [`https://alan-turing-institute.github.io/rse-course`](https://alan-turing-institute.github.io/rse-course).
You can build the documentation from source by running:

```bash
pip install -U jupyter-book
./build_docs.sh
```

## Contributing

Contributions are always welcome! Please do the following:

- add an issue to the [course repo](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/rse-course), explaining the problem and, potentially, its solution.
- if you know how to fix it, please also open a pull request that contains the fix. By doing this, you will improve the instructions for future users. :tada:
- if you need to add a dependency, please edit `pyproject.toml` which is used to automatically generate `requirements.txt`

The full list of contributors can be [seen here](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/rse-course/graphs/contributors).

## Acknowledgements

This course began as a fork of the [UCL RSD course](https://github.com/UCL/rsd-engineeringcourse).
